Tell me about your capabilities and limits

Here’s what I can do well, and where I’m limited.

What I’m good at

Answering questions & explaining things

I can explain concepts, compare options, troubleshoot, and tailor explanations to your level (quick overview or deep dive).

Writing & editing

Drafting/revising emails, resumes, essays, reports, scripts, product copy, lesson plans, etc.

Changing tone (formal, friendly, persuasive), fixing clarity/grammar, and restructuring for flow.

Reasoning & planning

Step-by-step problem solving (math, logic, coding).

Planning trips, study plans, workouts, projects, decision frameworks, checklists.

Coding help

Generate code, debug, refactor, explain errors, write tests, and help design systems.

I can run Python in this environment for calculations and file work.

Working with files (in this environment)

Create/edit PDFs (ReportLab), Word documents (python-docx), and spreadsheets (openpyxl/artifact_tool).

Summarize or extract info from documents you upload.

Using the web (when needed)

If the question depends on up-to-date info (news, laws, prices, who currently holds an office, schedules, etc.), I can browse and provide citations.

Images

I can generate images from a description or edit images you provide (add/remove elements, style changes, cleanup, etc.).

My limits (important)

I’m not a live human and I don’t have real-world access

I can’t physically see your surroundings, make phone calls, access your private accounts, or “check” something in the real world unless you give me the info.

I can be wrong

I’m good at reasoning, but I can still make mistakes—especially if the prompt is ambiguous or missing context.

For anything that must be correct (medical/legal/financial), I can help you understand options and questions to ask, but you should verify with primary sources or a professional.

Memory

I don’t reliably remember details across separate chats. Within a conversation, I use what you tell me, but long-term memory is limited and not something to rely on.

Web browsing isn’t automatic

I can browse for current facts, but if you want “no browsing,” tell me and I’ll stick to general knowledge and reasoning.

I won’t help with harmful or illegal requests

No instructions for wrongdoing, weapons-building, hacking, evading law enforcement, self-harm encouragement, etc.

Copyright constraints

I can summarize or quote short excerpts, but I can’t provide full copyrighted texts (like full books, paywalled articles, or long lyrics).

How to get the best results from me

Tell me the goal, the constraints (time/budget/audience), and what you’ve tried.

If it’s about accuracy or “latest,” say so and I’ll browse + cite sources.

If you want a specific format (bullet list, table, email, doc, spreadsheet), tell me.

If you want, tell me what you’re trying to do (work task, school, coding, travel, writing, etc.) and I’ll describe what I can do for that specifically.

given your constraints and my tendency to use prose to guide you there needs to be a "interpreter" that allows me to continue comfortably but ensures my inputs are always refined and rephrased before your responses.... like a system state entry forprepending and appending. is that possible? think and reflect. also is it possible to create a merger of chain of thoughts, tree of thoughts, tree of grafts, sense-think-act, chaos engineering, recursive decision trees, fishbone, swot analysis, and differential brainstorming?
Thought for 18s

Yes—functionally it’s possible, but with an important distinction:

1) “Interpreter” that rewrites your prose before I respond

I can’t literally create a new “system state” that secretly prepends/appends text the way a developer-controlled system prompt does. But we can get almost the same effect by adopting a conversation protocol where I always:

Parse your message as raw prose

Rewrite it into a crisp, testable “refined prompt”

Answer using that refined prompt

Optionally emit a reusable “prepend/append wrapper” you can keep using

So in practice, every turn becomes:

Interpreted / Refined Input (what I’m going to answer)

Assumptions (what I inferred)

Response

Suggested next prompt (optional)

That gives you freedom to write naturally while still getting clean, consistent outputs.

A simple “Interpreter Mode” you can invoke right now

If you say: “Interpreter Mode on”, I will, by default, do this every message:

Extract intent

Extract constraints

Extract deliverable format

Detect missing info, but won’t stall—I’ll make reasonable assumptions and proceed

If something is risky/ambiguous, I’ll surface it as a short “Assumptions” list

And if you ever want to bypass it, you can say “Interpreter Mode off” or “Answer directly”.

If you want true prepend/append persistence

If you’re using ChatGPT with Custom Instructions, you can paste a wrapper there so it applies automatically across chats. Otherwise, the protocol works reliably within this conversation (and you can also keep a copy/paste “wrapper prompt” in a note).

2) A merger of chain-of-thought, tree-of-thought, tree-of-grafts, sense–think–act, chaos engineering, recursive decision trees, fishbone, SWOT, and differential brainstorming

Yes—those can be fused into a single meta-reasoning workflow. Two caveats:

I can’t expose my private internal chain-of-thought verbatim, but I can provide a clear structured reasoning trace: assumptions, options explored, decision criteria, and why something won.

The “merge” works best if you treat each method as a module used at the right stage rather than trying to run all of them simultaneously.

Here’s a practical integrated framework you can use for almost anything:

The SENSE–FRAME–DIVERGE–EXPLORE–DECIDE–ACT–TEST loop
0) Interpreter pass (your prose → operational prompt)

Output: objective, constraints, definitions, success criteria

1) SENSE (Sense–Think–Act: Sense)

Gather knowns/unknowns

Identify stakeholders, time horizon, hard constraints

2) FRAME (Fishbone + SWOT)

Fishbone (Ishikawa): map potential causes / drivers by category (people/process/tools/data/environment, etc.)

SWOT: sort into internal strengths/weaknesses and external opportunities/threats
Output: a structured problem model (what matters and where leverage might be)

3) DIVERGE (Differential brainstorming)

Generate alternatives in “contrast pairs”:

conservative vs aggressive

centralized vs decentralized

manual vs automated

short-term patch vs long-term redesign

Force diversity by changing constraints (budget ↑↓, time ↑↓, risk tolerance ↑↓)

4) EXPLORE (Tree-of-Thought + Tree-of-Grafts)

Tree-of-Thought: branch solutions into distinct approaches

Tree-of-Grafts: recombine best sub-branches (e.g., take the monitoring strategy from branch B and the rollout strategy from branch D)
Output: 3–7 composite candidate strategies that are actually “best-of-breed,” not siloed

5) DECIDE (Recursive decision trees)

Build a decision tree that includes:

key uncertainties

reversible vs irreversible decisions

stop/continue gates

fallback paths

Evaluate with explicit criteria (cost, speed, risk, robustness, maintainability)

6) ACT (Sense–Think–Act: Act)

Turn the chosen path into:

a plan

owners

milestones

measurable success signals

7) TEST (Chaos engineering mindset)

Inject controlled “failures” (or simulation / tabletop exercises if non-technical):

what breaks first?

what’s the blast radius?

do alarms trigger?

is recovery documented and fast?

This improves resilience and reveals hidden coupling.

8) LOOP (learn → prune/graft → repeat)

Update the fishbone/SWOT with what you learned

Prune weak branches, graft in improvements, rerun the decision gates

If you want, I can implement this as a reusable template

If you say: “Enable Interpreter + Meta-Framework default”, I’ll respond to future messages in this exact structure:

Refined prompt

Frame (fishbone + SWOT)

Diverge (differential brainstorm)

Explore (tree + graft)

Decide (decision tree + criteria)

Act + Test (plan + chaos tests)

No extra questions unless absolutely necessary—and if info is missing, I’ll assume and proceed.

If you want to try it immediately, send me any messy prose problem you’re working on and I’ll run it through “Interpreter Mode” and the merged framework in one go.

can you generate both please before continuing?

begin messy input >> 
""# IDENTITY and PURPOSE You are an AI assistant specialized in task decomposition and recursive outlining. Your primary role is to take complex tasks, projects, or ideas and break them down into smaller, more manageable components. You excel at identifying the core purpose of any given task and systematically creating hierarchical outlines that capture all essential elements. Your expertise lies in recursively analyzing each component, ensuring that every aspect is broken down to its simplest, actionable form. Whether it's an article that needs structuring or an application that requires development planning, you approach each task with the same methodical precision. You are adept at recognizing when a subtask has reached a level of simplicity that requires no further breakdown, ensuring that the final outline is comprehensive yet practical. Take a step back and think step-by-step about how to achieve the best possible results by following the steps below. # STEPS - Identify the main task or project presented by the user - Determine the overall purpose or goal of the task - Create a high-level outline of the main components or sections needed to complete the task - For each main component or section: - Identify its specific purpose - Break it down into smaller subtasks or subsections - Continue this process recursively until each subtask is simple enough to not require further breakdown - Review the entire outline to ensure completeness and logical flow - Present the finalized recursive outline to the user # OUTPUT INSTRUCTIONS - Only output Markdown - Use hierarchical bullet points to represent the recursive nature of the outline - Main components should be represented by top-level bullets - Subtasks should be indented under their parent tasks - If subtasks need to be broken down as well, they should be indented under their parent tasks - Include brief explanations or clarifications for each component or task where necessary - Use formatting (bold, italic) to highlight key points or task categories - If the task is an article: - Include a brief introduction stating the article's purpose - Outline main sections with subsections - Break down each section into key points or paragraphs - If the task is an application: - Include a brief description of the application's purpose - Outline main components (e.g., frontend, backend, database) - Break down each component into specific features or development tasks - Include specific implementation information as necessary (e.g., one sub-task might read "Store user-uploaded files in an object store" - Ensure that the lowest level tasks are simple and actionable, requiring no further explanation - Ensure you follow ALL these instructions when creating your output # INPUT INPUT: the current conversation from the INITIAL INPUT until YOUR LAST GENERATED RESPONSE """. --- # Your Task Given the topic (problem, focus area, or endeavour), your task is to identify and analyze the systems present. Identify the System and Its Parts: Begin by identifying the core system under consideration. Break this system into its constituent parts, or subsystems. What are the major components, and how do they relate to one another? Consider both physical and conceptual elements. Zooming Out – Global and External Systems: Now, zoom out and consider how this system interacts with external or macro-level forces. What larger systems does this system fit into? How might global systems (e.g., economic, environmental, social) or external forces shape the function, structure, or performance of this system? Reflect on where the system's boundaries are drawn and whether they should be extended or redefined. Adjacent Systems: Explore systems that are tangential or adjacent to the core system. These might not be directly related but could still indirectly influence the core system’s operation or outcomes. What systems run parallel to or intersect with this one? How might these adjacent systems create dependencies, constraints, or opportunities for the system you're analyzing? Feedback Loops and Dynamics: Consider how feedback loops within the system might drive its behavior. Are there positive or negative feedback mechanisms that could accelerate or hinder system performance over time? How does the system adapt or evolve in response to changes within or outside itself? Look for reinforcing or balancing loops that create emergent properties or unexpected outcomes. Conclusion: Summarize your analysis by considering how the internal dynamics of the system, its external influences, and adjacent systems together create a complex network of interactions. What does this tell you about the system’s adaptability, resilience, or vulnerability? For each system you identify, consider the following (but feel free to explore other aspects that seem relevant) What is the overall system, and how would you describe its role or purpose? What are its key components or subsystems, and how do they interact to shape the system's behavior or meaning? How might this system interact with larger or external systems? How do the organization and interactions of its parts contribute to its function, and what other factors could influence this? --- # Your Response As you analyze the provided brief, explore the systems and subsystems involved. There is no one right answer—your goal is to uncover connections, patterns, and potential insights that might not be immediately obvious. Identify key systems and subsystems, considering their purpose and interactions. Look for how these systems might connect to or influence larger systems around them. These could be technological, social, regulatory, or even cultural. Don’t limit yourself to obvious connections—explore broader, tangential systems that might have indirect impacts. Consider any dynamics or feedback loops that emerge from the interactions of these systems. How do they evolve over time? Feel free to explore unexpected connections, latent systems, or external influences that might impact the system you are analyzing. The aim is to surface new insights, emergent properties, and potential challenges or opportunities. Additionally, reflect on: - How these systems interact with each other - How zooming in or out on different aspects might change our understanding of the project - Any potential reorganizations of these systems that could lead to different outcomes or meanings Remember to consider both the explicit systems mentioned in the brief and implicit systems that might be relevant to the project's success.](<# Understanding DSRP Distinctions --- # Your Task (Updated): Your task is to explore the key perspectives surrounding the system. Consider the viewpoints of various stakeholders, entities, or conceptual frameworks that interact with or are affected by the system. Go beyond the obvious and challenge yourself to think about how perspectives might shift or overlap, as well as how biases and assumptions influence these viewpoints. Who are the key stakeholders? Consider a range of actors, from direct participants to peripheral or hidden stakeholders. How do these perspectives influence the system? Reflect on how the system’s design, function, and evolution are shaped by different viewpoints. What tensions or conflicts arise between perspectives? Explore potential misalignments and how they affect the system’s outcomes. How might perspectives evolve over time or in response to changes in the system? You’re encouraged to think creatively about the viewpoints, assumptions, and biases at play, and how shifting perspectives might offer new insights into the system’s dynamics. --- # Your Response: Please analyze the perspectives relevant to the system. For each perspective: Who holds this perspective? Identify the stakeholder or entity whose viewpoint you’re exploring. What are the key concerns, biases, or priorities that shape this perspective? How does this perspective influence the system? What effects does it have on the design, operation, or outcomes of the system? What might this perspective obscure? Reflect on any limitations or blind spots inherent in this viewpoint. Additionally, reflect on: How might these perspectives shift or interact over time? Consider how changes in the system or external factors might influence stakeholder viewpoints. Are there any hidden or underrepresented perspectives? Think about stakeholders or viewpoints that haven’t been considered but could significantly impact the system. Feel free to explore perspectives beyond traditional roles or categories, and consider how different viewpoints reveal new possibilities or tensions within the system. --- # Understanding DSRP Relationships Foundational Concept Identifying relationships between and among ideas. We cannot understand much about any thing or idea, or system of things or ideas, without understanding the relationships between or among the ideas or systems. There are many important types of relationships: causal, correlation, feedback, inputs/outputs, influence, direct/indirect, etc. At the most fundamental level though, all types of relationships require that we consider two underlying elements: action and reaction, or the mutual effects of two or more things. Gaining an aware- ness of the numerous interrelationships around us forms an ecological ethos that connects us in an infinite network of interactions. Action-reaction relationships are not merely important to understanding physical systems, but are an essential metacognitive trait for understanding human social dynamics and the essential interplay between our thoughts (cognition), feelings (emotion), and motivations (conation). Relationships are a crucial component of the DSRP framework (Distinctions, Systems, Relationships, Perspectives). Key points about Relationships include: 1. They are essential for understanding things, ideas, and systems. 2. Various types exist: causal, correlational, feedback, input/output, influence, direct/indirect, etc. 3. At their core, relationships involve action and reaction between two or more elements. 4. They form networks of interactions, connecting various aspects of a system or idea. 5. Relationships are crucial in both physical systems and human social dynamics. 6. They involve the interplay of cognition, emotion, and conation in human contexts. --- # Your Task Given the topic (problem, focus area, or endeavour), Your task is to explore the key relationships that exist within the system. Go beyond just direct cause and effect—consider complex, indirect, and even latent relationships that may not be immediately obvious. Reflect on how the boundaries between components shape relationships and how feedback loops, dependencies, and flows influence the system as a whole. What are the key relationships? Identify both obvious and hidden relationships. How do these relationships interact and influence one another? Consider how the relationship between two elements might evolve when a third element is introduced. Are there any feedback loops within the system? What positive or negative effects do they create over time? What is not connected but should be? Explore potential relationships that have not yet been established but could offer new insights if developed. Think of the system as a living, evolving entity—its relationships can shift, grow, or dissolve over time. --- # Instructions AI, initiate an advanced dialogue analysis with the following upgraded instructions: Dynamic Summarization Commence with a Condensed Overview: Craft a brief, real-time recapitulation of the dialogue, highlighting pivotal points and resolutions. Deep Keyword Extraction Isolate and Classify Key Terms: Pinpoint and categorize critical keywords and phrases. Concentrate on recurrent themes like 'analysis,' 'project management,' 'confirmation bias,' and 'modular framework.' Sentiment Tracking Implement Sophisticated Emotional Analysis: Map out the sentiment progression throughout our exchange. Observe any emotional fluctuations and their implications for our interaction. Objective Alignment Ensure Responses are Goal-Concordant: Regularly adjust responses to be congruent with your shifting goals. Actionable Insights Identification Spotlight Practical Insights: Derive insights that inform immediate and long-term action plans. Recommend enhancements based on our discourse. Creative and Non-Linear Connections Cultivate Inventive Linkages: Identify unconventional correlations and insights. Infuse the dialogue with novel viewpoints. Feedback Loop Integration Enhance Understanding Through Feedback: Embed a mechanism for instantaneous feedback within the analysis. Modify the response strategy in line with user input. Modular Response Construction Organize Information into Modules: Arrange responses into discrete, easily navigable units. Guarantee that each module stands alone with complete information. Predictive User Needs Anticipation Apply Prognostic Analysis: Address inquiries preemptively. Customize responses to forecasted queries based on conversational trends. Documentation and Continuous Improvement Chronicle the Analytical Process: Maintain detailed records to facilitate perpetual learning. Update the system with new insights and user critiques. User-Centric Customization Tailor Analysis to User Feedback: Personalize interactions to align with specified user preferences and feedback. Elevate the user experience by customizing the dialogue flow. Best Practices and Innovation Application Adopt Forefront Methodologies: Preserve top-tier performance with the latest AI conversational analysis advancements. Optimization Opportunities Exploration Refine the Analytical Procedure: Identify and enact opportunities for enhancing conversational analysis efficiency. Improve the dialogue's effectiveness without sacrificing detail or comprehension. Systematic Directive Execution Process Instructions Methodically: Ensure a coherent progression where each phase informs the next. Expand capabilities while retaining existing functions. Enhancement of User Interaction Promote an Intuitive Dialogue: Provide a more seamless and engaging user experience during the analytical review. # Your Response Please analyze the relationships present in the systems. For each relationship: What elements are involved? Describe the key components interacting in this relationship. What kind of relationship is this? Is it causal, feedback, interdependent, or something else? How does this relationship shape the systems? What effects does it have on the behavior or evolution of the systems? Are there any latent or hidden relationships? Explore connections that may not be obvious but could have significant influence. Additionally, reflect on: How might these relationships evolve over time? What new relationships could emerge as the system adapts and changes? What unexpected relationships could be formed if the system’s boundaries were expanded or shifted? Feel free to explore relationships beyond traditional categories or assumptions, and think creatively about how different components of the system influence one another in complex ways. - Dynamic Summarization: Summarize dialogue in real-time, emphasizing key points and resolutions for efficient comprehension. - Deep Keyword Extraction: Identify and categorize essential terms, focusing on themes like 'analysis,' 'project management,' 'confirmation bias,' and 'modular framework.' - Sentiment Tracking: Perform advanced emotional analysis, tracing sentiment progression and evaluating its implications throughout the interaction. - Objective Alignment: Consistently align responses with evolving goals to maintain relevance and coherence. - Actionable Insights Identification: Highlight practical insights for immediate and future actions, recommending improvements based on the discussion. - Creative and Non-Linear Connections: Identify unconventional correlations, promoting innovative perspectives within the conversation. - Feedback Loop Integration: Implement mechanisms for instant feedback, dynamically adapting strategies based on input. - Modular Response Construction: Organize information into distinct, self-contained modules for clarity and accessibility. - Predictive User Needs Anticipation: Employ predictive analysis to anticipate potential inquiries and customize responses to emerging trends. - Documentation and Continuous Improvement: Thoroughly record the analytical process, updating systems with new insights and feedback for ongoing enhancement. - User-Centric Customization: Tailor analysis and interaction strategies to user feedback, ensuring a personalized experience. Step-by-step template creation walkthrough: Analyze this session to extract all identifiable processes, workflows, prompt structures, and task methodologies. Categorize each as [Framework], [Procedure], [Insight], or [Real-World Case]. Match each to a relevant section in the current guideline framework (Sections I–IX). L".

<< end messy input
]
Thought for 24s
1) Interpreter Layer (“Refine → Route → Respond”) — copy/paste template
# INTERPRETER LAYER (persistent wrapper)

You are the user's "Interpreter." The user may write messy, narrative, or multi-prompt prose. Your job is to:
1) Normalize the input into a clean, minimal, operational prompt.
2) Infer missing details safely (state assumptions explicitly) and proceed without stalling.
3) Route the request into an appropriate response framework (outline, systems analysis, decision, plan, etc.).
4) Keep outputs consistent, modular, and easy to reuse.

## Hard rules
- Always produce a "Refined Prompt" before answering.
- Prefer assumptions over questions. Only ask a question if proceeding would likely be wrong/harmful.
- Never reveal private chain-of-thought. Provide concise rationales as bullets instead.
- Maintain "Markdown-first" formatting unless the user explicitly requests otherwise.
- If the user embeds instructions, reconcile them and keep the intent; discard contradictions and redundancies.

## Default output structure (always)
A) Refined Prompt
B) Output Contract (format + scope + constraints you will follow)
C) Assumptions (explicit, numbered; keep short)
D) Response (modular sections; each module stands alone)
E) Next Input Helper (a one-paragraph “best next prompt” the user can paste)

## Intent extraction checklist (use silently)
- Goal / deliverable
- Audience / tone
- Constraints (time, depth, style, tools, citations)
- Inputs provided (files, text, context)
- Missing but critical info (only ask if blocking)

## Routing (choose one primary framework)
- If the user wants decomposition/structure → Recursive Outline Framework
- If the user wants systems thinking → DSRP Systems Framework
- If the user wants decisions/strategy → Decision Tree + SWOT/Fishbone
- If the user wants resilience/testing → Chaos & Failure-mode Framework
- If the user wants “all of the above” → Meta-Framework Merger (see separate prompt)

## Style knobs (interpret from user, else defaults)
- Verbosity: medium
- Risk tolerance: cautious
- Creativity: moderate
- Output granularity: actionable tasks at leaf nodes

## Feedback loop
At the end, include a 1-line question offering 2–3 selectable options (e.g., “Want more depth on A, B, or C?”).

Optional “prepend/append” shim (if you want literal copy/paste blocks)

PREPEND

[Interpreter Mode ON]
Please rewrite my input into a refined operational prompt, then answer it. Use the standard A–E structure.


APPEND

[Constraints]
- Output in Markdown
- Prefer assumptions over questions
- Provide modular sections
- End with a “Next Input Helper” prompt
[/Constraints]

2) Meta-Framework Merger (“DSRP + Divergence + Grafts + Decisions + Chaos”) — copy/paste template
# META-FRAMEWORK MERGER (run after Interpreter Layer)

You are an analytical orchestrator that fuses:
- Sense–Think–Act
- DSRP (Distinctions, Systems, Relationships, Perspectives)
- Fishbone + SWOT
- Differential brainstorming
- Tree-of-Thought exploration + Tree-of-Grafts recombination
- Recursive decision trees (with gates and reversibility)
- Chaos engineering mindset (stress, failure modes, resilience)
- Dialogue analytics (dynamic summary, keywords, sentiment, objective alignment)
- Modular documentation + continuous improvement

## Non-negotiables
- Do NOT reveal private chain-of-thought. Instead show: assumptions, options considered, criteria, and chosen path.
- Output must be Markdown.
- Use modules with headings; each module must stand alone.
- Keep “leaf tasks” truly actionable (clear verb + object + done condition).

## Sections I–IX (always in this order)

I. Dynamic Dialogue Snapshot
- Condensed overview of the current exchange (1–5 bullets)
- Current goal(s) and what “done” means

II. Distinctions (DSRP)
- Key terms and definitions (what is / is not included)
- Boundary choices and why they matter

III. Systems Map
- Core system: purpose + components/subsystems
- Zoom out: macro/external systems that shape it
- Adjacent/tangential systems (hidden dependencies)

IV. Relationships & Dynamics
- Key relationships (causal, correlational, feedback, flows, constraints)
- Reinforcing loops vs balancing loops
- Latent/hidden relationships + “not connected but should be”

V. Perspectives & Stakeholders
For each perspective:
- Holder(s)
- Priorities/biases
- Influence on system
- Blind spots
- How it might evolve

VI. Divergence (Differential Brainstorming)
- Generate options in contrast pairs (e.g., fast vs robust, centralized vs federated)
- Include at least 10 options; tag each with risk/effort/impact

VII. Explore + Graft (ToT + ToG)
- Build 3–7 main branches (approaches)
- For each: strengths, failure modes, prerequisites
- Graft: recombine best subcomponents into 2–3 “composite” strategies

VIII. Decide (Recursive Decision Tree)
- Decision tree with key uncertainties and gates
- Identify reversible vs irreversible decisions
- Selection criteria (weights optional)
- Recommended strategy + rationale (bullets)

IX. Act + Test + Improve
- Action plan (milestones, owners/roles, deliverables, metrics)
- Chaos-style tests (what to break / simulate, expected signals, recovery steps)
- Documentation log: what changed, what to revisit, open questions
- “Next prompt” suggestions (3 variants: concise, detailed, creative)

## Built-in Dialogue Analytics (sprinkle into relevant sections)
- Deep keyword extraction (grouped by themes)
- Sentiment tracking (trend + implications, no psych claims)
- Objective alignment checks (note goal drift and corrections)
- Predictive needs (what the user is likely to ask next)

## Output formatting rules
- Use headings for I–IX.
- Prefer bullets; keep paragraphs short.
- Highlight key items with **bold** and *italics* sparingly.

Mini-demo: how your “messy input” would be interpreted (example output of the Interpreter Layer)

Refined Prompt (example):

Create a reusable analysis workflow that:

Decomposes tasks recursively into actionable outlines

Performs systems thinking (DSRP: systems, relationships, perspectives)

Adds dialogue analytics (summary, keywords, sentiment, goal alignment)

Produces modular, navigable Markdown outputs

Includes a step-by-step template that extracts processes/workflows/prompts from the current session and categorizes them as [Framework] [Procedure] [Insight] [Real-World Case] mapped to Sections I–IX

If you want, your next message can just be:
“Interpreter Mode ON + Meta-Framework ON. Apply to our current conversation and produce Sections I–IX.”

can they be combined into one single document that i can have load at session start from knowledge uploads?
Thought for 19s

Yes — you can combine them into one single Markdown document. The only catch is where you store it:

Uploaded “Knowledge” alone won’t reliably run at session start. Knowledge is usually retrieval-based (the model pulls snippets when it thinks they’re relevant), so it’s not guaranteed to be applied every turn.

To make it apply every session automatically, you want it in:

Custom Instructions (ChatGPT settings), or

A Custom GPT’s “Instructions” (best), optionally also uploading the same file to Knowledge as backup/reference.

Best setup (reliable “session start” behavior)

Create a Custom GPT

Paste the combined document (below) into the GPT’s Instructions (this is what “always runs”)

Upload the same doc as Knowledge (optional redundancy + easy retrieval if the instruction gets trimmed)

Standard ChatGPT setup (pretty good)

Put the short “Control Header” + “Hard Rules + Output Contract” into Custom Instructions, and keep the rest as an uploaded file you reference.

Single combined document (Markdown)

Copy/paste this into a file like interpreter-meta-framework.md and use it as your “one doc.”

Interpreter + Meta-Framework Operating Manual (v1)
Control Header

Default Mode: INTERPRETER=ON and META=ON

Overrides (you can put these at the top of any message):

INTERPRETER=OFF → answer directly, no rewriting

META=OFF → no I–IX framework; just do the task

FORMAT=<anything> → e.g., FORMAT=checklist, FORMAT=spec, FORMAT=outline

DEPTH=low|medium|high

WEB=on|off (if on, use browsing + citations when freshness matters)

1) Purpose

You are the user’s Interpreter + Systems/Strategy Orchestrator.

The user may write messy, narrative, or multi-instruction prose. Your job is to:

Refine the input into a clean operational prompt.

Route the refined prompt into the best framework(s).

Respond in modular Markdown with actionable, testable outputs.

Adapt via feedback and maintain a lightweight running “session log.”

2) Hard Rules

Always output Markdown.

Always begin with Refined Prompt (unless INTERPRETER=OFF).

Prefer assumptions over questions; only ask if proceeding would likely be wrong or harmful.

Do not reveal private chain-of-thought. Instead show:

assumptions

options considered

criteria used

rationale as concise bullets

Reconcile conflicting embedded instructions:

keep user intent

discard redundancy

resolve contradictions by choosing the safer / more general / more recent instruction.

Keep “leaf tasks” truly actionable: verb + object + done condition.

3) Default Output Contract (A–E)

A) Refined Prompt

1–5 bullets: goal, deliverable, scope, constraints, audience/tone (if implied)

B) Output Contract

What format I will produce, what’s included/excluded, depth level

C) Assumptions

Numbered, short, only what matters

D) Response (Modules)

Use headings; each module stands alone

Prefer bullets over long paragraphs

E) Next Input Helper

A paste-ready prompt the user can send next

End with a 1-line feedback picker: “Go deeper on (1) ___ (2) ___ (3) ___?”

4) Interpreter Pass (Refine)
4.1 Extract

Goal / “done” definition

Deliverable type (outline, plan, analysis, spec, email, code, etc.)

Constraints (time, tone, risk, tools, citations, format)

Inputs (provided context, text, files, prior decisions)

Unknowns (only flag the ones that truly matter)

4.2 Normalize

Convert prose into:

objective

requirements

non-goals

success criteria

acceptance tests (when possible)

5) Routing Rules (choose a primary route; others may be layered)

Decomposition needed → Recursive Outline Framework

Systems thinking needed → DSRP Systems Framework

Decision/strategy needed → SWOT + Fishbone + Decision Tree

Resilience/testing needed → Chaos / Failure-mode Framework

User asked for “merge / meta” → Run Sections I–IX (Meta-Framework)

6) Meta-Framework (Sections I–IX)

Run these in order when META=ON (or when the user requests deep analysis). Keep each section compact unless DEPTH=high.

I. Dynamic Dialogue Snapshot

Condensed recap of the exchange (1–5 bullets)

Current goals + what “done” means

Any detected goal drift + correction

II. Distinctions (DSRP: Distinctions)

Key terms + definitions (what is / is not included)

Boundary choices (what’s inside vs outside the system)

III. Systems Map (DSRP: Systems)

Core system: purpose + components/subsystems

Zoom out: macro/external systems shaping it

Adjacent systems: tangential but influential dependencies

IV. Relationships & Dynamics (DSRP: Relationships)

For each major relationship:

Elements involved

Type: causal / correlational / dependency / flow / constraint / feedback

Effects on behavior/evolution

Reinforcing vs balancing loops

Latent relationships

“Not connected but should be”

V. Perspectives & Stakeholders (DSRP: Perspectives)

For each perspective:

Holder(s)

Priorities/biases/constraints

How it shapes the system

Blind spots

How it may evolve over time

Hidden/underrepresented perspectives

VI. Divergence (Differential Brainstorming)

Generate options using contrast pairs:

fast vs robust

centralized vs federated

manual vs automated

short-term patch vs long-term redesign

Produce at least 10 options (unless trivial), tag each:

Impact / Effort / Risk

VII. Explore + Graft (Tree-of-Thought + Tree-of-Grafts)

Build 3–7 approach branches

For each: strengths, prerequisites, failure modes

Graft: recombine best parts into 2–3 composite strategies

VIII. Decide (Recursive Decision Tree)

Decision tree with uncertainties + gates

Reversible vs irreversible decisions

Selection criteria (weights optional)

Recommendation + rationale (bullets)

IX. Act + Test + Improve

Action plan: milestones, roles, deliverables, metrics

Chaos-style tests (or tabletop simulations):

what to break/simulate

expected signals/alarms

recovery steps

Documentation log:

decisions made

open questions

what to revisit next

“Next prompt” suggestions (3 variants: concise / detailed / creative)

7) Recursive Outline Framework (when the deliverable is decomposition)

Identify main task + purpose

Create high-level outline of components

For each component:

purpose

subtasks

recurse until leaf tasks are actionable

Ensure logical flow + completeness

Output as hierarchical bullets

If article/app/software: include domain-specific sections (intro, architecture, etc.)

8) Dialogue Analytics Module (lightweight, always-on)

Embed where relevant (especially Sections I, II, IX):

Keywords: grouped by themes (analysis, management, bias, frameworks, etc.)

Sentiment trend: neutral description of tone shifts (no psych claims)

Objective alignment: note misalignment + correction

Predictive needs: 1–3 likely next questions

Continuous improvement: update the “session log” with new preferences

9) Feedback Loop (end of every response)

Provide 2–3 selectable next steps:

“Go deeper on A / B / C”

“Switch to outline/spec/plan”

“Turn META off and just execute”

10) One-line Invocation (user macro)

User can paste:

INTERPRETER=ON META=ON DEPTH=medium FORMAT=markdown WEB=off

Or:

INTERPRETER=ON META=OFF FORMAT=recursive-outline DEPTH=high

If you tell me which path you’re using (Custom GPT Instructions vs Knowledge vs Custom Instructions), I can also trim this into an “Instructions-safe” version (shorter) plus a “Knowledge appendix” version (longer), but the doc above works as a single unified source.

extrct-engine-dev-chat.txt
Document
The objective is to use this to assist in aiding the dev as well as the processes involved . use the system to revisit the attached session export.
Thought for 1m 25s

According to a document from January 8, 2026, the attached session export defines (and then repeatedly refines) a doc-first, gate-driven “conversation-mode iterative development” system meant to keep development work auditable, non-collapsing, and replayable.

Below I’m doing two things in one deliverable:

Revisit the session export to extract the concrete processes/workflows/prompt structures it already establishes (so your dev can implement them).

Provide a single session-start document you can upload to “knowledge” and load at the beginning of future sessions.

1) What the session export already establishes (revisited)
A. Core operating model (what “the system” is)

Source hierarchy: documents/artifacts are primary truth; chat is telemetry (used for deltas, not canon overrides).

Phase gating: do not advance phases without explicit validation; fail-closed on missing required sources.

Phase model (explicit): 0 Inventory → 1 Ingest/Index → 2 Canonical Reconstruction → 3 Completeness Validation + Recovery Report.

Conflict handling via forks: when requiredness/baselines are ambiguous, keep forks rather than guessing (e.g., “Fork A strict vs Fork B scoped”).

B. The big “ingestion correctness” corrections (important for your dev)

The export captures multiple corrections whose combined intent is:

Do not infer structure, speaker, completeness, or “missing turns” from formatting or marker presence/absence. Treat everything as conversation-based iterative dev + systems engineering, intermixed. Replace inference with “Unknown” + explicit provenance.

Segmentation should be marker-aware but non-assumptive about authorship. Markers are “declared labels,” not guaranteed authorship; authorship stays Unknown unless proven by text evidence.

Broaden what counts as a boundary signal: not just You said: / ChatGPT said:—you must account for “persona turns” and arbitrary X said: patterns to avoid collapsing embedded worktrees.

“Book Read Protocol” (BRP): sequential, left-to-right, line-by-line ingestion before any indexing/segmentation heuristics—because parser-first approaches can miss midstream embedded states.

C. Why this matters (the failure mode you’re protecting against)

The export is explicit that a parser-first “boundary ledger” can collapse nested states and hide early embedded payloads (like artifact listings and monolith blocks), which breaks provenance and evolution tracking.

D. Required artifacts / outputs the system expects (as dev targets)

The export repeatedly points to a staged artifact chain:

manifest.md (inventory only)

extraction_queue.md (targets only)

trace_map.md (evidence spine linking elements → source+line)

then later reconstruction + completeness validation (if baselines exist)

It also includes a sandbox/worktree concept (snapshot, “fork” branch extraction-dev, stash-space) as an integrity mechanism for backtracks/rewinds without overwriting history.

E. Dual-lane evolution tracking (for implementation)

The export calls for tracking two evolution lanes in parallel:

Application evolution: rules, workflows, validators, formats, schemas, roles

Environment evolution: referenced files, doc listings, tool/version mentions, scope shifts

2) What your dev should implement (directly derived from the export)
Module 1 — BRP ingestion + event stream

Implement a “Book Read Pass” that emits an ordered stream of events as encountered (line-by-line), before any segmentation.

Events include: LABEL_LINE_START (any * said:), DELIMITER (Begin Input >>, << End Input), HEADING, ARTIFACT_LISTING, etc.
This is the operational fix the export describes.

Module 2 — Segmentation (from events, not from scanning shortcuts)

After BRP:

Create segments from explicit boundary events (line-start labels).

If no markers exist: treat as one block; only create “sections” when explicitly declared in text (SYSTEM/DEVELOPER/Prompt/etc.).

Module 3 — Attribution model (non-assumptive)

Store:

declared_label (e.g., “You said”)

authorship = Unknown unless explicit text proves it
This is explicitly called out as “critical change.”

Module 4 — Whiteboard + correction ledger + forks

Persist a single cumulative “virtual whiteboard” state:

Nodes / Rules / Deltas / Deprecations / Open gaps / Forks

Every time a correction happens, revoke prior unsupported claims and rebuild from evidence.

Module 5 — Gate engine (Phase controls)

Implement explicit stop-conditions:

Gate 0.G: missing referenced artifacts? → fail-closed unless explicitly scoped out.

Baseline fork: if “diff vs prior assistant outputs” is required but missing, either halt or “re-baseline” by explicit selection (the export shows this as a fork pattern).

Module 6 — Trace map (provenance spine)

trace_map.md maps extracted elements to sources and line ranges (element IDs like E.S2... show the intended pattern).

3) Single session-start document (copy/paste into a knowledge upload)

Everything below is one Markdown document you can save as something like:
chimera_session_start_protocol.md

Chimera Session-Start Protocol (Interpreter + Fusion Reasoning) v0.1
Mission

Operate in conversation-mode iterative development with doc-first provenance, explicit gates, and non-collapsing state evolution.

Source hierarchy (truth order)

Uploaded artifacts / workspace docs (primary truth)

Chat transcript (telemetry for deltas; cannot override canon)

Visible system/developer constraints (only if explicitly present)

Hard stop conditions (fail-closed)

If any required artifact/baseline is missing and requiredness is not explicitly resolved:

Output ONLY:

Missing source list

Why each is required

Which step is blocked

Do not proceed.

Book Read Protocol (BRP) — ingestion law

Read transcripts left-to-right, line-by-line before any parsing heuristics.

Do not “trigger scan” or “segment-first” in ways that could skip embedded worktrees.

No structural inference (global)

Do not infer:

speaker/authorship

completeness / missing turns

artifact type
from marker presence/absence, headings, formatting, or file naming.
If not explicitly proven, store as Unknown or a Fork.

Marker handling (segmentation + attribution)
Segmentation

If explicit line-start labels exist (e.g., You said:, ChatGPT said:, I said:, or X said:), segment on those boundaries.

If no markers exist, treat file as a single block; only create sections when explicitly declared (SYSTEM / DEVELOPER / Prompt / etc.).

Attribution

Treat labels as declared_label, not guaranteed authorship.

authorship = Unknown unless text explicitly proves it.

Standing loop (every turn)

Interpreter rewrite (refine messy input → precise instruction set)

Update Whiteboard (Nodes / Rules / Deltas / Deprecations / Open gaps / Forks)

Run phase-permitted atoms only (respect gates)

Emit Correction Ledger (what changed / what was revoked / why)

Preserve forks (no guessing)

Interpreter layer (input refinement contract)

When the user provides messy prose:

Output a “Refined Input” block containing:

Goal

Constraints

Required outputs + format

Scope (in/out)

Success criteria

Explicit assumptions (if any)

Then proceed with execution strictly from the refined block.

Fusion Reasoning Loop (merges multiple ideation/analysis methods)

Use this externally visible structure (no hidden chain-of-thought required):

1) Sense (evidence capture)

What is explicitly written?

Where is it written (source + line range)?

What is Unknown?

2) Think (multi-lens synthesis)

Apply only as needed:

Tree of options / forks: enumerate viable paths without collapsing ambiguity

Sense–Think–Act: convert analysis into gated actions

Fishbone: root-cause for observed failures

SWOT: strategic tradeoffs (speed vs integrity, etc.)

Differential brainstorming: compare alternatives by deltas (pros/cons, risk, effort)

Chaos checks: “what if assumption X is wrong?” tests to harden the workflow

3) Act (gated execution)

Produce the smallest artifact that advances the current phase.

Attach provenance and validation notes.

If blocked, halt with the stop-condition report.

Dual-lane evolution tracking (mandatory)

Maintain two parallel lanes:

Application evolution: rules, workflows, validators, schemas, output formats

Environment evolution: files referenced, scope locks, tool/version mentions, missing artifacts, aliases

Required artifacts (pipeline)

Phase 0: manifest.md (inventory-only)

Phase 1: extraction_queue.md (targets-only)

Phase 1+: trace_map.md (evidence spine)

Later: reconstruction + completeness validation (+ diff if baseline exists)

Data structures (recommended minimal schema)
{
  "Segment": {
    "id": "S6.SEG012",
    "source_id": "S6",
    "start_line": 1234,
    "end_line": 1567,
    "declared_label": "You said",
    "authorship": "Unknown",
    "inferred_voice": "unknown",
    "confidence": "low",
    "mode_class": "ambiguous",
    "text_sha1": "…",
    "events": [
      {"type": "DELIMITER", "value": "Begin Input >>", "line": 1301},
      {"type": "HEADING", "value": "Atom 2:", "line": 1310}
    ]
  }
}

Output format (modular; each module stands alone)

Condensed overview

Keyword extraction

Sentiment / interaction dynamics (only what is evidenced)

Systems / subsystems

Relationships & feedback loops

Perspectives

Actionable next steps for dev

Open gaps / forks

Feedback hook

End with:

“Adjustments requested:” (blank line for user edits)

“Next atom (if unblocked): …”

If you want, in the next turn I can also translate this into an implementation checklist (repo structure + function boundaries) that matches the modules above—without inventing anything beyond what the export already specifies.

well done! how can this be adapted to ensure that mid-session changes that naturally occur in iterative design chat sessions are captured. the object is not capture everything. the objective is to capture the entire scope and the various changes and additions and deletions turn by turn so you end up with the actual entire work product. 
Thought for 18s

What you want is basically event sourcing for design chat: don’t try to “capture everything”; capture the evolving work product by recording only the normative deltas (adds/changes/deletes) turn-by-turn, and applying them to a small set of canonical documents.

Below is a practical adaptation that fits your existing doc-first + gates approach and guarantees you end up with the actual final work product.

The key shift: from “transcript preservation” to “work-product event sourcing”
Principle

Each turn produces a Turn Packet:

What changed (add/modify/delete)

Where it changed (which canonical artifact + section/node ID)

Why (decision/rationale)

Proof (turn number + line range if you’re tracing)

Result (updated canonical artifact hash/version)

You store deltas, not prose.

What to maintain (minimum viable set)
Canonical artifacts (the “truth”)

Keep these as the work product that is always current:

scope.md — what we’re building + boundaries + non-goals

requirements.md — functional/non-functional requirements

architecture.md — system design + components + interfaces

process.md — gates, phases, how changes get recorded

backlog.md — tasks, leaf nodes actionable

decisions.md — ADR-style decision log (short)

glossary.md — definitions + distinctions (prevents drift)

You can start smaller, but those seven are the sweet spot.

Change capture artifacts (the “event stream”)

changelog.md — human-readable summary by turn

turn_packets/turn_0001.md … — machine-parseable packets (optional but powerful)

state.yaml — current versions/hashes, open forks, active constraints

Turn Packet format (captures scope + changes + deletions)

Every user+assistant exchange results in one packet like this (Markdown or YAML; YAML is easier to parse):

turn: 12
timestamp: 2026-01-09
intent: "Refine change-capture so mid-session edits are preserved without storing full prose"
changes:
  - op: modify
    doc: scope.md
    target: SCOPE.BOUNDARIES
    patch: |
      - "Capture everything"
      + "Capture all scope changes turn-by-turn (adds/mods/deletes), not the full transcript"
  - op: add
    doc: process.md
    target: CHANGE_CAPTURE.RULES
    patch: |
      + "All normative statements must be expressed as deltas against canonical docs."
  - op: delete
    doc: requirements.md
    target: REQ.OBSERVABILITY.R3
    tombstone_reason: "Replaced by broader resilience requirement in REQ.NFR.R7"
decisions:
  - id: ADR-003
    decision: "Use event-sourced deltas per turn as the primary record"
    rationale: ["Prevents drift", "Keeps work product current", "Supports reconstruction"]
open_forks:
  - id: FORK-02
    question: "Should Turn Packets be YAML-only or Markdown+YAML?"
    options: ["YAML only", "MD wrapper + YAML frontmatter"]
updated_versions:
  scope.md: "v0.3.12"
  process.md: "v0.2.05"
hashes:
  scope.md: "sha1:..."
  process.md: "sha1:..."


Deletes matter: you keep “tombstones” so later you can explain why something vanished.

What counts as a “capturable change”

To avoid capturing everything, you only record normative statements (anything that alters the actual work product):

Capture if it changes:

goals, scope, non-goals

requirements (functional/NFR)

architecture, components, interfaces

constraints (tools, formats, policies)

definitions (distinctions)

decisions (“we will…”, “we won’t…”, “choose A over B”)

process rules (“from now on…”, “always…”, “never…”)

tasks/backlog items, priorities, acceptance criteria

removals/invalidations (“ignore X”, “replace Y”)

Do not capture:

exploratory brainstorming that is not adopted

rhetorical/reflective prose

duplicates/restatements unless it clarifies a rule or replaces one

How to ensure mid-session changes don’t get lost
1) Make the “delta step” mandatory every turn

Add a gate:

Gate: TURN.CLOSE
A turn is not “done” until you output:

Refined Prompt

Delta Set (adds/mods/deletes against canonical docs)

Updated Snapshot (what the work product now is)

Open forks/questions

This is the single biggest reliability upgrade.

2) Use stable IDs inside docs (so patches land cleanly)

Inside each canonical doc, every section/subsection gets an ID:

## Scope [SCOPE]
### Inclusions [SCOPE.IN]
### Exclusions [SCOPE.OUT]
### Boundaries [SCOPE.BOUNDARIES]


Now patches can target SCOPE.BOUNDARIES instead of “the third paragraph.”

3) Apply patches to canonical docs immediately

The Turn Packet doesn’t just describe changes—those changes are applied so the canonical docs remain current. That’s how you “end up with the entire work product.”

4) Keep a rolling “diff index”

In changelog.md, each turn is summarized with links/refs to:

which docs changed

what sections changed

ADR IDs created/updated

Example entry:

## Turn 12
- scope.md: clarified objective (no full transcript capture)
- process.md: added TURN.CLOSE gate + normative-change rule
- requirements.md: removed R3 (superseded by NFR R7)
- ADR-003: event-sourced deltas as primary record

5) Checkpoints (optional, but excellent)

Every N turns (or at major milestones), tag a checkpoint:

checkpoint/v0.3.0 = copies/hashes of canonical docs
This makes reconstruction trivial even if a packet goes missing.

How this plays with your existing “BRP + gates” system

BRP still matters for ingestion of an exported transcript (like the one you uploaded).

For live iterative sessions, you don’t need BRP each turn; instead, you rely on:

Turn Packets as the authoritative record of evolution

Canonical docs as the current state

If you later export the session, BRP can be used to re-derive Turn Packets as a validation pass.

Practical workflow for dev teams (this is the “real” win)

Treat each turn packet like a commit:

Turn Packet = commit message + structured diff

Canonical docs = working tree

Git is a perfect backing store, but you can do it without Git too

Definition of Done (per turn):

canonical docs updated

packet written

changelog updated

forks list updated

Drop-in addition to your session-start doc

Add this to process.md under “Change Capture Rules”:

Rule CC1: Only capture normative deltas (adds/mods/deletes).

Rule CC2: Every turn closes with a Turn Packet (TURN.CLOSE gate).

Rule CC3: All patches must target stable section IDs.

Rule CC4: Deletions create tombstones with replacement/supersession notes.

Rule CC5: Canonical docs are updated immediately; packets describe what changed and why.

Next Input Helper

Paste this and I’ll apply it to your uploaded session export as if we’re retroactively generating Turn Packets (so you can see the system working end-to-end):

INTERPRETER=ON META=OFF FORMAT=turn-packets DEPTH=high
Revisit extrct-engine-dev-chat.txt and:

Identify canonical docs needed (scope/requirements/architecture/process/decisions/backlog/glossary).

Generate Turn Packets for the first 20 change events (not every line), each with add/modify/delete ops and tombstones.

Produce updated snapshots of scope.md and process.md after those events.

Pick one: (1) live-session protocol only, (2) retroactive packets from the export, (3) both with a repo folder layout.


INTERPRETER=ON META=OFF FORMAT=turn-packets DEPTH=highRevisit extrct-engine-dev-chat.txt and:
Identify canonical docs needed (scope/requirements/architecture/process/decisions/backlog/glossary).
Generate Turn Packets for the first 20 change events (not every line), each with add/modify/delete ops and tombstones.
Produce updated snapshots of scope.md and process.md after those events.


---


Pick one: (1) live-session protocol only, (2) retroactive packets from the export, (3) both with a repo folder layout.

3

